[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think we really
need to define--
redefine success in a way
that includes our hearts
and includes our love and
includes our compassion
and includes our
caring for one another.
And so it's not just about
a dog-eat-dog kind of thing.
Dogs don't even
eat dogs, in truth.
But when we know--
I think we know when
we're a success when
our hearts are strong.
And we live with them in a way.
And so our life
reflects our hearts.
We make choices that express
our love, our caring, and that
that becomes the defining
aspect of who we are.
I worked-- I went to
Alabama and Mississippi
to participate in the
Civil Rights movement.
I was a kid from the North.
I was a white kid.
But to me, that was
history happening.
To me, that was an opportunity
to be part of something,
to witness something that
was of immense significance.
To me, the racism in our
society was abhorrent.
My dad thought, you're
trying to rock the boat.
They have their own
culture in the South.
You shouldn't go down there.
You should leave them alone.
They don't want you.
We didn't see eye to
eye on that either.
And then there was
the war in Vietnam.
And I thought it was a
ridiculously stupid idea,
the war, and cruel and a waste
of resources and terribly,
terribly damaging
to our soldiers
but to the people of
Vietnam, most significantly.
Everybody involved got hurt.
And I opposed the war.
I protested it.
My dad was in favor of it.
So we had our
differences in values.
And I began to understand
that for me to--
even though I loved my dad
and respected his achievements
tremendously, for me to
follow in his footsteps, which
is what he wanted, I would
have lost my integrity.
I would have lost
my soul in some way.
That's not what I'm here
on this Earth to do,
invent a 32nd flavor.
And he was saying, well,
you could take stores
throughout the world.
And you could build a
company even bigger.
And I was thinking,
yeah, so what?
Why would I-- yes, I could.
You've built something
powerful, big, strong.
I could continue that.
But there was something in
my heart that just said,
that would be lucrative.
That path is paved with
gold and ice cream.
The other path is really
confusing, awkward, strange.
I don't know where it will lead.
I'll just have to put one
foot in front of the other
and take it a day
at a time and see
what unfolds and try to get
into alignment with my spirit,
with my wholeness, with the
greater good of our world,
with the fact that
we are inextricably
interwoven with the
whole Earth community.
And I really felt
called, honestly,
to live a very different
life than the one he
had planned for me.
And it was so painful because
how do you say no to something
like that?
My dad thought I was
crazy to walk away
from that kind of money,
into a life of insecurity.
But the truth is,
for me, when I walked
away from the
financial security,
I became more emotionally
secure, ironically,
because I now was
listening to and trying
to abide by and express
the gifts within me
and the understandings and
love in my heart for life,
as opposed to just
seeking the dollar.
Our society teaches us that
that's what success is.
When we say somebody
is a success,
usually, what we
mean by that term
is that they've
made a lot of money
or they have a lot of money.
That's a success.
I think that's a very
impoverished view of success.
I think a successful
human being-- well,
we probably all have to
define that for ourselves.
But for me, anyway, I
define success for myself
as living in harmony with my
spirit and the spirit of others,
living with respect for myself
and others, living with respect
for creation, for this
beautiful, endangered,
fragile, crazy world and messy
world but loving it anyway.
And to me, that's
where I find my heart.
The world's longest lived
cultures, the healthiest
and longest lived, where there
are the most centenarians,
people that live to 100,
and supercentenarians,
people who live to 110, are--
have been studied.
And we know who they are.
We know what they do.
And they vary a little bit.
They're all veganish.
None of them are purely vegan.
But they all eat
a lot of plants.
And none of them eat very
many animal products.
And none of them
eat any modern meat.
And none of them eat any
processed foods or the packaged
foods that we see in
our supermarkets that
are full of sugar and
chemicals and processing.
And they also care
for each other.
They live in a way where their
relationships with one another
are their wealth.
We think of wealth as what we
acquire, the things we own.
They think of wealth as who
they love and who loves them.
They think of wealth as their
character, their reputation
in their communities.
And they care for what they
experience as their wealth.
They care for each other.
They care for themselves
and their characters
and the kind of
people they become.
And they help others to
become the kind of people
that they want in
their society--
honest people, hard-working
people, reliable people,
people of integrity
and thoughtfulness
and depth and creativity.
And they value the
person who can sing.
They value the person who
can make beautiful things.
They value the person
who nurtures others.
They value the people who
contribute to the well-being
of their communities.
And if somebody amasses
personal stuff, what
we would call wealth, at
the expense of others,
they don't value that.
They see that that
ruptures the connectivity,
the connective tissue
of the culture.
And so they look
askance on that.
And they may even find
that to be shameful.
We, on the other hand,
will celebrate lifestyles
of the rich and famous.
I find that a little crazy
because we have decided
that what makes a
person rich is something
that I view as something
that harms, in many cases.
Now, the person who
is rich in money
and uses that money
to help others be well
and to help others live
happy and joyful lives
and safe lives and secure
lives, that I honor immensely.
We need more of that.
But all too often, our
rich people don't do that.
And the cost to
their souls is great.
And the cost to our society
is possibly even greater.
We all know the world is in
tremendous crisis in peril
today.
And I think the
way we've defined
success is part of that problem
because we are, as individuals,
rather than thinking about what
gifts do we have to develop,
to cultivate, to grow inside
ourselves, and then to give,
we're thinking about what we
can acquire, what we can take,
and rather than thinking
about what we have to give.
And to be in reciprocity with
life, we give and receive.
And in order to
give and receive,
you need to live with respect
for yourself and for the world
and for everyone else in it.
And when we have
billionaires and lead
the world in homelessness as
well, that to me is a shame.
That to me is an embarrassment.
That to me is a
tremendous mistake
that we've made in how
we define ourselves.
And if we can learn again
where our hearts are,
find them, and let them teach
us and show us and guide
us and live according to what
is in our hearts and souls
that we have come to this Earth,
to share, to give, to be known
for, instead of just the
fame for its own sake,
then we are playing the
part we are here to play,
in the healing.
And each of us
has a part to play
in the healing that's needed.
And yes, you and I are each one
seven billionth of humanity.
And you can think
of it that way.
That's just a tiny,
tiny drop in the bucket.
But if there's enough drops,
it ceases to be a bucket.
It becomes the tide
of history turning.
It becomes something
that is unstoppable.
It becomes something that is
good and wholesome and beautiful
and powerful beyond measure.
And that is the
power that Gandhi
called satyagraha, the
power of love force,
caring, the power of spirit.
And it is greater when
we create it together
than the power of materialism
and the power of the ego
and the power of separation.
I think it's up to each
of us to find our calling,
to find our spirit, to find
our integrity, and to live it.
And when we do, we're playing
the part in the greater healing
that we're meant to play.